 
Gobierno de Reconciliaci√≥n y Unidad Nacional  
Unida Nicaragua Triunfa  
 
    
 
 
MESSAGE FROM THE PEOPLE  
AND GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA  
TO THE 80TH UNITED NATIONS GENERAL ASSEMBLY  
 
Madam President:  
 
Once again we are on this platform which 
claims to represent the Peoples and Governments  
of the whole world.  
 
Here we bring, as always, the affectionate and 
combative greeting of our Heroic Nicaraguan 
People, who, as we know and say, understand 
Battles, Honor, and the Glory of defending our 
Principles and Values, our Sovereign Dignity, 
our Rights and, particularly, the Sacred Right 
to Be Free and thus to choose our Cultural, 
Social, Economic and Political Model, to 
advance against Poverty, in the face of all 
the challenges of these inclement moments in 
the History of Humanity.  
 
 
2 
 
 We present ourselves here once again, proud of 
our Brother and Sisterhood with other 
Combative, Integral, Decent Peoples, as are 
all the Peoples of the World, Peoples and 
Families whom we defend, protect and sustain 
in all our Prerogatives and Beliefs, in all 
the Cultures and Practices that the 
Colonialists and Imperialists of the World 
have wanted to attack and which they have 
tried to steal from us, without being able to 
do so, and we know that they will not be able 
to do so.  
 
In these crucial circumstances of Human 
history, the dilemma is repeated, the eternal 
duality, the never -resolved conflict between 
Peace and War, between Life and Death, between 
the supremacist claim to annihilate, subjugate 
and appropriate our Cultures, and our 
obligation to defend our Spiritual, Social and 
Material Heritages.  
 
 
3 
 
 These are moments that define us... Either we 
are for Peace and Life, or we are cowardly 
promoters of War, Misery and Death.  
 
For Nicaragua, Blessed and Always Dignified, 
Sovereign, Forever Free, there is no choice: 
We Are Life, Health, Steadfastness and 
Strength... Life in proud and undefeated 
Hope... We are Light and Truth, as our 
Immortal General Sandino said, and we are also 
inspired Conscience and Courage, willing to 
serve the Sublime and Superior Causes of 
Humanity; the Supreme Good of All, Concord, 
Understanding, Sensitivity, Fraternity, 
Coexistence and Cooperation among all, to 
share the Goods that belong to Everyone.  
 
The Future is made of the Vigor and Glory of 
our Peoples, who know that Fighting and 
Overcoming are synonymous, that Struggle is 
the Highest of all Songs, and that to Fight is 
to create the Victories necessary for the 
Common Good.  
 
4 
 
  
The Human Family demands Respect and Peace. 
The Human Family demands Solidarity inspired 
Encounter between Beings who are equal in 
every way, and complementary also, in every 
way. 
 
The Human Family demands respect for all the 
Agreements made 80 years ago, when the United 
Nations was created, to stop Wars and build 
firm, lasting Peace and Justice, the Treasure 
and a Patrimony of Everyone.  
 
The Human Family hopes, trusts, proposes and 
at the same time insists on, demands and 
requires, Union to reach the Fullness of 
Intelligence, Serenity, Wisdom, Calm, and 
Humility, indispensable to build and no longer 
to destroy.  
 
We are referring to all the issues that are 
priorities in our Times: Climate Justice, 
Compensation or Reparations to those who have 
 
5 
 
 endured and suffered the misfortunes and evils 
generated by the selfishness and greed of 
Colonialism, Imperialism, Racism and all the 
abominable and opprobrious forms of 
oppression, discrimination, slavery, and 
denial of our condition and quality as Human 
Beings. 
 
We denounce and condemn, as Peoples aggrieved 
by xenophobic discrimination and barbarism, by 
the brutality and complete lack of compassion 
with which we have been and are still treated 
by countries whose wealth is built on the 
plundering and looting of our own.  
 
We denounce and condemn, together with all the 
Peoples of the World, the horrible, hateful 
and execrable Policies of criminal Economic 
Blockade, aggression by means of Coercive, 
Arbitrary, Unilateral Measures, as well as the 
terrible Migration Policies, which ignore 
Human Rights, violate Human Rights and are a 
reflection and mirror of the selfishness and 
 
6 
 
 contempt of those who believe they own the 
World. 
 
Here we denounce and condemn, once again, all 
the savage, atrocious, incomprehensible 
outrages at this stage of Life, that the 
Imperialist Powers deploy via their economic, 
cultural and commercial policies, seeking to 
continue dominating us, and grossly trying to 
intimidate us with their stupid armaments and 
ostentatious military designs, directed 
against Peace, in Asia, Africa and our Latin 
American-Caribbean.  
 
We denounce the inhumane policies against each 
of us, in all fields... Migration and 
Exclusion; we denounce and condemn the 
unforgivable and unjustifiable insults and 
threats, the unacceptable State Terrorism, all 
the Crimes Against Humanity shamelessly on 
display, as if they were the Superior 
Prerogative of the Imperialists of the Earth.  
 
 
7 
 
 We denounce and condemn all the insulting and 
vulgar aggression, verbal, political, economic 
and commercial along with the bellicose 
outrages, which also constitute Crimes against 
Humanity, Crimes against Security, 
Tranquility, Justice and Peace, the Supreme 
Assets of our Peoples, which they cannot, and 
should not abuse or snatch away.  
 
As Revolutionary Brothers and Sisters in the 
Greater Patriotic Nation, Sons and Daughters 
of the Great Heroes and Heroines of Our 
America, Protagonists of Victorious 
Revolutions, we ratify here our full, 
unequivocal Solidarity and Brother and 
Sisterhood with Cuba and Venezuela. Nicaragua 
and the Sandinista Popular Revolution fully 
identify with the Battles and indispensable 
Victories that we are building in these Lands 
of Freedom, Dignity and Sovereignty, knowing 
that We Neither Sell Out Nor Surrender, Ever!  
 
 
8 
 
 Here we also denounce and condemn the citizen 
and human insecurity caused by the illicit use 
of implausible pretexts and fallacious, false, 
outlandish accusations, which are merely yet 
more interference, along with the threats of 
more invasions and occupations.  
 
We denounce and condemn the absurd 
manipulations with demented, far -fetched 
accusations, using the pretext of drug 
trafficking, which is a plague and trade of 
Rich Countries, where millions of consumers 
live, those Powerful Countries that encourage 
impoverished people to engage in more 
production and trade of such substances, 
trafficking wretchedness.  
 
We denounce hunger as a weapon of domination, 
abandonment, malnutrition and disease, the 
unseemly, insulting and immoral treatment of 
Families, Women, Young People, Children, the 
Elderly, who are increasingly seen as a 
 
9 
 
 hindrance and banished from Life, promoting 
new kinds of extermination.  
 
We reiterate our historical and permanent 
condemnation of the Genocide, the barbaric 
policy of denial of the Palestinian People... 
We condemn all the savage, brutal, massacres 
that are perpetuated and spreading, in clear 
view with the complacency of the whole world.  
 
We condemn the State of Israel, just as we 
have condemned and do condemn the policies and 
practices of the other Colonial, Imperial, 
Neo-colonial and Fascist Powers.  
 
We condemn, therefore, the exile of Goodness, 
and all the attacks on Life, on Freedom, on 
Coexistence and Civilization that we thought 
we had built.  
 
We demand more Policies and Programs for 
Security, Health, Education, for a Dignified 
Life... Water, Housing, Technologies, Tranquil 
 
10 
 
 Community Life, Employment and Progress within 
reach of Everyone, for the Good of Everyone.  
 
On the 80th Anniversary of the Founding of the 
United Nations, let us promote more and more 
coherence of Human Consciousness. We must 
continue to raise our Voices, joining Hands 
and Hearts, crying out and fighting, demanding 
and striving, so that this stage of Life on 
this Planet that we share, ceases to be marked 
by Death in all its forms, by the kidnapping 
of Intelligence and Soul, so as to become 
instead Inspiration, Encouragement, and the 
Strength of Hope.  
 
We call on all of us to work in sensitive and 
sustainable, capable, ingenious and creative 
union; we call on all of us to keep making our 
way, committed and steadfast, building Unity, 
building Brother and Sisterhood, Affinity and 
Unity, which is true Strength, fulfilling the 
Always Further On which as a Deep Spiritual 
 
11 
 
 Currency, should be a Daily Anthem and Action 
for each person, for everyone.  
 
On the 80th Anniversary of the United Nations, 
we urge us all to change the logic, change 
attitudes, change behavior, to be truly human, 
to stop reiterating and repeating the past, 
without results. Unity along with Brother and 
Sisterhood should be the Path that we take 
together, with Courage and Pride, so that we 
continue to create this other World which is 
already taking shape to become a new Dawn.  
 
Poverty, Violence and Arrogance, are 
Ignorance!  
To Love is to Fight!  
To Strive, to Fight and to Fight on!  
To Overcome, Overcome and Overcome!  
A Patriotic Nation and Dignity!  
A Patriotic Nation and Humanity!  
 
Monday, September 29th, 2025  
Nicaragua Forever Free  